Phorum Security HOW-TO (Apache/Unix specific)

Original Author: Jason Birch
Updated by: Brian Moon
Date: March 3, 2000
Version: 1.2

Contents:

I) Introduction
II) Securing the config files
   1) change the config file's extension
   2) deny access to the file via .htaccess
   3) move the file outside the web tree
III) Wrapping the scripts
   1) running the scripts under your userid
   2) setting appropriate file access permissions
IV) Securing the Administrator Script
   1) restricting access by filename
   2) moving the admin script to a secure directory
V) Conclusion


I) Introduction:

These instructions are not meant to be a replacement for a good
understanding of web security.  They will allow you to set up a
reasonably secure Phorum install, but do not count on them to cover
everything.  Take responsibility for the integrity of your web site...
Learn the security basics, and remember: a little paranoia is a
good thing.

It is important to implement some form of security measures around your
Phorum installation.  Without these, a malicious user could break into
your Phorum and change it or delete it.

The basic problem is that web servers usually run on unix
machines as "nobody", but the Phorum scripts run by the web server
need to have access to the Phorum configuration file.  However,
the Phorum files are generally owned by a real user.  The only
way that a script running as "nobody" can access and update this file
is if the user grants world read-write permissions to it.  As you might
imagine, this opens up several security holes which need to be plugged.
There are several methods of doing so, depending on whether you are
running Phorum on a dedicated server or a shared server (i.e. other
users could have access to your directories via telnet or FTP).

Another potential security hole is users guessing your password by
loading the admin area.  Restricting access to your administrative
functions is something that should be done regardless of what type of
server you are on.

As well as securing your installation, you should also prepare for
the worst.  If possible, place all of your phorum tables in a separate
database created exclusively for this purpose, and give it a different
username and password than your other databases.  If this is done, the
worst that can happen if your security is hacked is that you loose your
Phorum (you are making regular backups aren't you?).  Otherwise you
might loose valuable business data (such as traffic counts) or even
your entire site if you are generating it dynamically.

Apache-specific examples of implementing a decent level of security are
included below.  If you are not running Apache, you should read them as
a starting point for implementing similar measures on your server.
Most of the the examples assume that you have access to directory-level
server directives via an .htaccess file.  If you do not, you should
fix it (if you can) or consider moving to a server that does.


II) Securing the config files

ALL USERS SHOULD DO AT LEAST THIS!!!

If trusted local users are the only ones that have login access to your
server via telnet/ftp/etc., then securing your Phorum install is a
relatively simple task.  You only need to make sure that the web server
will not allow direct access to your configuration files, even if for some
reason a misconfiguration causes the PHP code to be echoed.  If the web
user types in "http://yourserver.com/Phorum/forums.php", the file should
not be displayed.  There are (at least) two ways of doing this.  The first is
the most secure.

1) Move the configuration files outside the web tree, for example into
your user directory.  This level of security is all that is required
on a dedicated server, and can be done in two steps:

a) Create a directory outside of your web tree and give it world
read-write permissions (chmod 707 --> if you don't know what this
means, read the chmod man page by typing "man chmod" at the unix prompt)

e.g.
  cd ~
  mkdir phorum
  chmod 707 phorum

b) modify the file common.php in the Phorum install directory, changing
the $inf_path variable (near the bottom):

$inf_path="/your/home/directory/phorum";

2) If you can not move it from the web tree, deny access to the files using a
server directive placed in a files called ".htaccess" (or whatever your provider
has changed this to) placed in the /include directory.  In it should be
placed the lines:

<Files forums.php>
Order Deny,Allow
Deny From All
</Files>

<Files forums.bak.php>
Order Deny,Allow
Deny From All
</Files>

You should place similar lines in the file for any other sensitive
configuration files.

III) Wrapping the scripts

If you want to run Phorum on a shared server, you absolutely need to wrap
the scripts... unless, of course, your provider makes all of your scripts
run as your userid.  In this case, ignore this step and just chmod 700 all
of your Phorum files.  You may also want to ensure that the inf files
are being written as mode 700 by adding the line "umask(0077);" to the
main admin script (admin/index.php) near the beginning of the function
writefile().

What "wrapping" means is to have the .php scripts executed under your
userid instead of the web server's default "nobody".  This is because,
no matter how well you hide the script (e.g. in a directory that's chmod
711), any user on your server could create a script that is run as
"nobody" by the web server which could alter or remove your config files.
This is especially bad on a shared server because the config file could
also give the user access to your database passwords which, in many cases,
will let them mess with more than just your Phorum tables.

On a shared server, your provider should be "providing" you with a
secure and PHP-friendly script wrapper.  If they are not, you should
either not run scripts like Phorum that read/write files that include
passwords or you should move to another provider.

1) Wrapping the scripts:

With apache, it is moderately easy to wrap your php scripts, and you don't
even need to change the script extensions.  You do, however, need to have
a copy of the CGI version of PHP3 available in your cgi-bin directory.

You first need to set up an Addtype in the .htaccess file which resides
in your Phorum install directory.  This setting overrides the default
.php setting:

AddType application/x-httpd-wphp php

And then set up an action for this new type:

Action application/x-httpd-wphp /cgi-sys/php-cgiwrap/username/php3.cgi

In this case, php-cgiwrap is the wrapper script that your provider has put
in place, and it runs the PHP binary with user permissions in the specified
user's cgi-bin directory.

You will also want to ensure that the inf files are being written as
mode 700 by adding the line "umask(0077);" to the main admin script
(admin/index.php) near the beginning of the function writefile().

2) Setting appropriate permissions:

All files except .htaccess and the images directory (which the web server
needs to read directly) should be chmod 600.  The .htaccess file should
be chmod 604, and the images directory should be chmod 705.  The files in
the images directory can be chmod 604.

The beauty of this method is that no matter what happens to the web
server, your files can not be directly accessed by anyone but you or a
script running as you.


IV) Securing the Admin Script

The admin script has built in security.  It mainly controls the areas that
a given password can gain access to.  It may not secure the script from
intruders.  To do that follow the directions below.

You can restrict access to your admin directory in one of several
ways.  They are all equally effective, choose the one you prefer.
These methods can be combined to make them more effective.  These examples
assume that you have set up web user accounts in a directory called
"webaccess" off your home directory.  This can be done using the
htpasswd utility (man htpasswd for instructions). The passwd and
passwd.group files must be world readable (chmod 604) so that the web
server can access them for authorization.  The passwords are encrypted,
but do not place the files in your web tree to tempt password crackers.
The first two methods are simple but effective ways. It is recommended
that you do implement as many levels of this security as you can.

1) Rename the admin directory to a unique name that only you know.  It
can still be guessed, but it is only the first level of security.  You will
need to change the variable $admindir in common.php to point to this new
directory.

2) Rename the main admin script from admin/index.php to something else.  You
will need to change the variable $myname in that file.  You should also provide
an empty index.php so that users can't get a directory listing from the web.

3) Restrict access based on filename.  Place the following lines in
your .htaccess file.

AuthUserFile     /usr/users/yourname/webaccess/passwd
AuthGroupFile    /usr/users/yourname/webaccess/passwd.group
AuthName         "Phorum administration"
AuthType         Basic

<DIRECTORY admin>
require group admin
</DIRECTORY>

4) Move the admin script to a password-protected directory.

a) Place the following lines in the new directory's .htaccess file:

AuthUserFile     /usr/users/yourname/webaccess/passwd
AuthGroupFile    /usr/users/yourname/webaccess/passwd.group
AuthName         "Phorum administration"
AuthType         Basic

<Limit GET POST PUT>
require group owners
</Limit>

b) Modify the path to the main phorum directory in the main amdin script:
Change:     chdir("../");
To:         chdir("/path/to/phorum/");

c) Make sure to specify the correct value for the "forum URL" in the
admin screen by selecting Phorum Setup, File/Paths and changing Forum URL.


V) Conclusion

I hope that this document has given you some understanding on how
to secure your Phorum install.  After reading this document and
implementing all the steps recommended in it, your Phorums will
be as secure as I know how to make them.  However, there may be something
that I am missing.  You should make the effort to learn about web
security for yourself and, if you find any mistakes in this document,
please forward them to me for correction.
