Upgrade instructions for Phorum 3.2.7

This file contains instructions for upgrading from one of three points:
 - Phorum 3.2.3+
 - Phorum 3.1.x -> 3.2.2
 - Phorum 3.0.x


A) To upgrade from any version 3.2.3+, you do not need to make any database
revisions.  Follow the instructions for B) below, but skip the step that says
to run the upgrade script (#4).


B) To upgrade from versions between 3.1.x and 3.2.2:

0) Make a backup of your current working Phorum directory as well as your
   tables.  This shouldn't be necessary, but it's good common sense.  We've
   all misread an instruction that has left us cursing for hours or days.

1) Install the new Phorum according to the readme.txt.  DO NOT however attempt
   to create any forums at this time.

2) Alter the new files to reflect the changes that you may have modified in
   the old configuration, such as the header.php, footer.php and the
   profanity/banned users files into the new installation.

*** These changes should be made during an off time, as your phorum will be down momentarily.

3) STOP Phorum from the old Admin interface

4) MySQL Users - Run scripts/upgrade.php from a web browser.
   PostgreSQL Users - Run scripts/upgrade_pg.php from a web browser.

5) Rename the directory that stores the old Phorum to something else. (e.g. phorum_old)

6) Rename the new install to the same name as the old install.

7) Load up the new admin script, and choose "Rebuild INF File"

8) In the admin, test that all of your existing forums are in place, and that any custom
   settings have been properly migrated.

9) Take a deep breath.

10) START Phorum from the new admin interface.

11) Test all of your forums to make sure that they are responding properly.


C) To upgrade from version 3.0.x

The upgrade30.php script is currently located in the scripts/ folder.
It must be run from a subdirectory of the main Phorum installation,
and you should remove it from your server after the upgrade is done.

1. Install Phorum as per readme.txt.
2. Copy forums.inf from your old location to another location
3. Modify the variable $oldinfpath in upgrade30.php to point to
   the location that you placed the copy of forums.inf
4. Comment out all the $DB lines in the old forums.inf by
   placing a // at the beginning of each line.  e.g.:
//   $DB = new db();
5. Comment out the $q lines.
6. Comment out the include lines.
7. Run upgrade30.php from a browser.
8. Load the admin script for your new installation and select:
   Rebuild INF File
9. In the same area, select:
   Reset Main Sequence
